The President: Hi, everybody.
Everything we've done over
the past six years has been
in pursuit of one
overarching goal: creating
opportunity for all.
What we've long understood,
though, is that some
communities have
consistently had the odds
stacked against them.
That's true of rural
communities with
chronic poverty.
That's true of some
manufacturing communities
that suffered after the
plants they depended on
closed their doors.
It's true of some suburbs
and inner cities, where jobs
can be hard to find
and harder to get to.
That sense of unfairness and
powerlessness has helped to
fuel the kind of unrest that
we've seen in places like
Baltimore, Ferguson,
and New York.
It has many causes -- from a
basic lack of opportunity to
groups feeling unfairly
targeted by police - which
means there's no
single solution.
But there are many that
could make a different and
could help.
And we have to do everything
in our power to make this
country's promise real for
everyone willing to work
for it.
That's why last Tuesday,
at a summit organized by
Catholics and evangelicals,
I sat down with a
conservative scholar and
a poverty expert for a
discussion on what it takes
to open more doors
of opportunity.
We know our efforts matter:
since 1967, we've brought
poverty down by about 40
percent, thanks in part to
programs like Social
Security and the Earned
Income Tax Credit for
working families.
And we know that there are
folks from all faiths, and
across the ideological
spectrum, who care deeply
about "the least of these."
So I hope this conversation
continues, not as a question
of whether, but of how, we
can work together to
grow opportunity.
Because it's not words,
but deeds, that make
a difference.
And from expanding tax cuts
for working parents, to
raising high school
graduation rates, to helping
millions of Americans secure
health insurance when they
didn't have it just a few
years ago -- our actions are
making a difference.
Of course, lack of
opportunity is not the only
barrier between too many of
our young people and the
kind of future they deserve.
On Monday, I'll travel to
Camden, New Jersey, a city
that has faced one of the
highest violent crime rates
in America.
I'll highlight some of the
innovative things they've
done to help police do their
jobs more safely and reduce
crime in the process.
And I'll highlight steps all
cities can take to maintain
trust between the brave law
enforcement officers who put
their lives on the line,
and the communities they're
sworn to serve and protect.
Whether we are Democrats,
Republicans, or
independents; whether we
live in one of our poorest
communities, one of our
wealthiest, or anywhere in
between, we all want our
country to be one where hard
work pays off and
responsibility is rewarded.
We want a place where you
can make it if you try.
That's the promise we
make to our young people.
That's the promise that
makes us exceptional.
And it's the promise I'll
never stop fighting to keep,
for my children
and for yours.
Thanks, and have
a great weekend.